so your standard rubik's cube is a three
by three puzzle
it's made up of 26 tiny cubes and has
six faces
each with nine small square faces of the
same color
wow i have a hard enough time with just
one face
so what's on the inside of this
mysterious construction
and how does it even work well stay
tuned
take a rubik's cube and move the top
face so it's not lined up
once it's done you can carefully pull
one of the edge pieces up with your
fingers
you can even go further and make several
other pieces fall off
as you can see the core holds six center
pieces
one for each side even though they do
rotate none of them can change their
position
since they're fixed in place which means
that in the original cube with standard
colors
the red centerpiece will always be
opposite from the orange one
yellow across from white and the blue
piece will be opposite from green
the edge pieces have two colors each in
the cube there are 12 such pieces
forming across on each side and then
there are eight corner pieces
each of them has three colors the edges
and corners aren't fixed to anything
that's why they can move around the
center parts pick up one of the pieces
you've pulled off and turn it around
you can see some extra material on its
inner part the cube keeps its shape
because the edges and corners hold one
another in place
each piece has an internal tab that
clings to the center cubes and the
surrounding parts
the tabs are shaped in such a way that
they fit along a curved track
formed by the backs of other pieces
that's how the cube moves if you look at
the process from the inside
and now time for the most exciting part
solving the rubik's cube
okay thanks cubie you can get dressed
looks like the exam's over
now first of all you'll need to learn
the rubik's cube lingo
it's both simple and logical boy if only
the rest of my life were that way
all moves are written down in letters
that stand for one
90 degree cube rotation u up
d down l left r
right f front b back
there's an optional h hurl and s smash
just in case you get frustrated hey i'm
only kidding
if you see an apostrophe next to the
letter it means the layer should move
counterclockwise by 90 degrees no
apostrophe
the layer goes 90 degrees clockwise a
number
next to the letter means the number of
turns you should make
and here's the main algorithm for your
right hand
it'll be r u r apostrophe u apostrophe
once again r u r apostrophe
u apostrophe it's the exact opposite for
your left hand
l apostrophe u apostrophe
l u repeating that's
l apostrophe u apostrophe l u
now if you want to nail it on the first
attempt it's a great idea to practice
sooner or later you'll be able to do all
the moves nearly automatically
it'll help you later on oh and by the
way
if you repeat these moves six times the
cube will look exactly like it did at
the very beginning
to solve the puzzle you'll have to go
through seven stages
white cross white corners the middle
layer
the yellow cross the yellow edges
the yellow corners the final stage
here we go white cross
the task here is to put together a white
cross and then align its edges
with the right colored center on each
side to begin with
you have to put together a sequence that
resembles a daisy
it's quite easy and doesn't need any
special algorithms
then rotate the top layer with the daisy
your goal is to make the front tile of
the top edge piece
match the color of the center piece and
rotate this layer
180 degrees do the same thing with the
remaining whites
and this is how you get a white cross at
the bottom
white corners at this stage you'll have
to put the lower corners of the cube in
the right places
and the cube's white side will be solved
ready
you have to use that r u r apostrophe u
apostrophe algorithm for your right hand
rotate only the top layer of the cube to
find a corner that has
the same color as the centers of the
other sides
then use the algorithm until the corner
is in the right place
do the same with the other corners
at this stage you'll have to concentrate
on the rest of the middle layer
your task is to make the edge pieces the
same color as the center
in the first case the layer you'll be
working on
is to the left on the top of the target
position
you must match it with the right color
here's how you can do it
turn the upper part to the left use the
algorithm for the right hand
rotate the cube left use the algorithm
for the left hand
in the second case the layer you'll be
working on
is to the right of the top of the target
position
turn the upper part to the right use the
algorithm for the left hand
rotate the cube right use the algorithm
for the
right hand repeat that with all the
sides and you're done
now the yellow cross for the yellow
cross
you are only going to need one algorithm
so front face clockwise right face
clockwise upper face clockwise
right face counterclockwise upper face
counterclockwise and front face
counterclockwise
got that if it doesn't work out the
first time keep trying until you succeed
the yellow edges now the cube has a
yellow cross on top of it
you have to maneuver the yellow edges
into their final positions
they should match the colors of the
center pieces on the cube sides
you can switch the front and left yellow
edge pieces with the help of the
following algorithm
r u r apostrophe
u r u2
r apostrophe you might need to use this
algorithm more than once
but if four colors are matching congrats
you can skip this stage
the yellow corners at this stage the
task is to put the corners in place with
the appropriate colors of neighboring
centers
you only need to move them into place
you're not solving them just yet
find the corner that's already in place
in this case
it's even rotated correctly but that's
not important
u r u apostrophe l apostrophe
u r apostrophe u apostrophe
l keep going as many times as you have
to until you've got the needed result
who the final stage you're at the finish
line
all that's left to do is solve the
corners you need the cube's yellow side
to be facing you
now you have to work with the upper
right corner
let's solve it corner by corner don't
rotate the cube and do everything step
by step
a lot of people make mistakes at this
stage and have to start all over
so be extra attentive do this algorithm
u r apostrophe u apostrophe
r two or four times until you've got the
result you need
once you're done with one move to the
next unsolved yellow piece
rotate the top layer so that this piece
is again in the upper right corner
and repeat the same algorithm u r
apostrophe
u apostrophe are between the algorithms
never turn the entire cube or the two
bottom layers
and finally rotate the front layer so
that all the cube's colors match
and you're done now wasn't that simple
hey don't throw that cube at me